Title:  'Building Virtual Networks for Experimentation and Profit'
Speaker:  Nick Feamster
Affiliation:  Georgia Tech
Date:  2006 Dec 6
Time:  4 p.m. - 5 p.m.
Location: Cherry Emerson 322
Abstract: |

  Users now demand high availability, good end-to-end performance,
  strong security, protection from unwanted traffic, and new (often
  critical) services from the Internet.  This growing set of
  requirements has exposed the current Internet's poor support for
  certain functions.  Unfortunately, new network protocols and services
  typically face two deployment hurdles, both of which network
  virtualization can help surmount.

  First, new protocols and services must be thoroughly tested under
  realistic scenarios before being deployed, but such rigorous testing
  first requires deployment on a real network.  VINI, a virtual network
  infrastructure, can help resolve this "deployment deadlock". VINI
  allows researchers to evaluate protocols and services in a realistic
  environment that also provides a high degree of control over network
  conditions.  VINI allows users to define flexible topologies and
  experiment with real routing software, traffic, and network events.  I
  will discuss VINI's design and implementation and demonstrate an
  implementation of VINI on PlanetLab.

  Second, a new protocol or service typically requires coordinated
  adoption by the Internet's independently administered networks.  This
  "coordination constraint" stifles deployment, especially in cases
  where no single network benefits by deploying the technology
  independent of other networks.  I will describe such an architecture,
  Cabo, which uses network virtualization to decouple infrastructure
  providers (who manage physical infrastructure) and service providers
  (who deploy network protocols and services), and discuss some
  associated challenges and opportunities.

  This work is joint with Andy Bavier, Jennifer Rexford, Lixin Gao, Mark
  Huang, and Larry Peterson.


Biography: | 
