Title:  'GENI: Global Environment for Network Innovations'
Speaker:  Jennifer Rexford
Affiliation:  Princeton University
Date:  2006 Nov 15
Time:   4-5p.m.
Location:  MirC 102 A
Abstract: |

  Despite its tremendous success, the Internet architecture is showing
  its age.  Security is weak and the problems are worsening;
  availability continues to be a challenge; network management is
  complex and expensive; and mobile hosts are difficult to handle.  Yet,
  researchers interested in designing new network architectures face an
  unfortunate catch-22.  New ideas are not likely to see significant
  adoption without evaluation of prototype systems under realistic
  conditions, and yet deploying a a prototype in a production network is
  difficult without first demonstrating the value.  The GENI initiative
  at the U.S. National Science Foundation aims to break this cycle by
  providing the networking research community with a controlled and
  realistic environment to evaluate new network architectures.  This
  talk will provide an overview of GENI and its three main
  features---virtualization, programmability, and user opt-in---as well
  as the current thinking about the design of the various components.


Biography: | 

  Jennifer Rexford joined the Network Systems Group of the Computer Science
  Department at Princeton University in February 2005 after spending
  eight and a half years at AT&T Research. Her research focuses on
  Internet routing, network measurement, and network management, with
  the larger goal of making data networks easier to design, understand,
  and manage. Jennifer is co-author of the book Web Protocols and
  Practice: HTTP/1.1, Networking Protocols, Caching, and Traffic
  Measurement (Addison-Wesley, May 2001) and co-editor of She's an
  Engineer? Princeton Alumnae Reflect (Princeton University,
  1993). Jennifer serves as the chair of ACM SIGCOMM, and as a member of
  the ACM Council and the CRA Board of Directors. She received her BSE
  degree in electrical engineering from Princeton University in 1991,
  and her MSE and PhD degrees in computer science and electrical
  engineering from the U. Michigan in 1993 and 1996, respectively.

